# _Grades - liars of progress_
========================================================
For a very long time, grades played a significant role in my motivation to study and be the best compared to my classmates. However, after my undergraduate studies, reality hit me with the job market requirements as my grades from high school and college studies were neither important nor valued by potential employers. Considering my technical background in Computer Science, I was given programming tasks for most of the job interviews to show my actual skills before I am hired. Although I succeeded in securing a job as a web developer and systems’ analyst, I fully concur with the assertions of Kohn that **Grades don’t prepare children for the real world** (Kohn, 2011). Based on my experience with the letter grading and marks quantification systems, the following are the key lessons I learned :-
- **Grades do not show the actual potential of a student**: As noted above, although I excelled by my studies, my potential recruiters did not consider the value of my grades. For instance, in my undergraduate studies, we learned a course on **Assembly language programming**. The course was highly technical. However, my final grade was ‘B’ because the sit-in exam was theoretical and I could answer questions easily more than writing code. I felt this grade did actually show my real potential on what I can do in the hardware programming language considering the technical features of the language before I can actually run a functional code or troubleshoot errors. As a result, to learn how to code in the language, I took personal initiative to find resources the helped me get the necessary skills.  
- **Grades lie about what a student has learned**: A student can learn and understand concepts but may be unable to apply or implement in real world. However, the student is considered smart because of scoring ‘A’ grade. Unless a better assessment is established to examine the skills gained from the course, more ‘educated’ people will be produced from colleges and universities but few skilled workers can be produced. 
- **Grades represent shortcuts to avoiding disappointments**: I am a victim of not feeling comfortable whenever I scored a grade less than a B in any of my courses. Therefore, as a strategy of getting the best grades (in this case A), I focused more on reading and understanding notes and theoretical parts more than practicing the technical tasks (‘easy way out’). Of course my teachers did not make follow-ups of what I could do at the end of the semester until my final year project (which I completed out of the skills learned alone but not from classroom). However, if grades were removed from courses, more students could have focused on learning and acquiring skills that would make them valuable on the job market. 
  Therefore, I would choose the technical skills gained at the end of the semester, completed projects and new and successfully completed challenges as the main source of motivation. Consequently, learning (without grades) would impart more skills on individuals and enable many students focus on problem solving. 
**Reference**
Kohn, A. (2011). The Case Against Grades. _Educational Leadership_. [Link](https://www.alfiekohn.org/article/case-grades/)
